Hello and welcome back.
And today we're going to investigate our daughter said that we're going to be using for this section
of the course so let's go ahead and open up Grettel.
Go to File Open daughter.
Use a file.
Mine's on my desktop like always moiling section as you can see.
We're slowly getting through the section or through this part of the course so logistic regression we
file.
There is e-mail offer that's fine that's fine.
And then in this window here you can see that griddle picked up that we have a categorical variable
which is gender it's got two categories and one is going to be female 2 is going to be male but we know
how to correct that or how to deal with that.
So we'll get to that later.
Now what we want to do is select all of our variables and go to data display value.
So we just have a brief look at the values.
So what can we see here.
First of all we've got the age variable right.
That's good.
Then we've got the gender variable.
So those are our independent variables.
And then you've got the dependent variable.
Took action.
So whether or not the person open up the email clicked the link took up the offer bought the product
.
So whatever our action was in in our specific case when we were sending out this email offer and we
also see that we have 100 records.
The interesting thing we see right away is that our independent or dependent variable took action is
binary.
So it's either 0 1 yes or no it makes sense.
That's what we're measuring.
What did they take action or not how much money they spent not how much time it took them to take action
or we think that we're just measuring did they take action or not.
Very simple straightforward yes or no.
So I'm going to bring up the types of variables slide that we had in them refresh our section of the
course.
And here I wanted to show you.
So we are kind of venturing into new territory.
So we've said that we have variables and we had we have categorical numeric variables and let's just
focus on those two.
Now we've already experienced scenarios when our independent variables are numeric like age or years
of experience or how much money a company is spending on R&D or marketing or administration.
So we've seen those scenarios.
We've also seen scenarios when our independent variables are categorical for instance gender or if the
company is located in New York or San Francisco so when we had to create dummy variables and include
those in our model.
So we have four independent variables we've done both this and this for dependent variables though we've
only done so far in numeric variables so both in the simple linear regression and the multiple linear
regression we always had numeric dependent variable so that y value the the variable that we were predicting
it has always been numeric it has been how much profit the company is going to make.
How much what the salary is of the person.
So it's always been a number or it's never been a category.
Well when I say that we're venturing into new territory now is because now our dependent variable is
actually categorical.
So this whole yes no situation that's a category you're categorizing your respondents or you're the
people that took or were part of this experiment or falling into two categories those who did take the
offer and those who didn't.
And that is why things are going to be different and we'll see exactly how right now.
So I'm going to close this and we're going to close this as well.
So let's go ahead and construct a chart a chart that we've seen many times.
We often see charts where our dependent variable is on the y axis vertical and our one of our independent
variables is on the horizontal axis.
The X-axis.
So let's go ahead and construct the child will do that for took action of course that's our dependent
verbal will put on the y axis and we will on the horizontal axis will look at age.
Let's go ahead and do that.
You need to go to View Graaff specified variables x y scatter.
And here we want to put h on to the x axis x axis is the top here.
Be careful and took action on the y axis and click OK.
And what do we see here.
First of all what are we used to seeing.
We're used to seeing lots of scattered dots all over the place for instance like in the example of your
or of people's experience and their salary or of how much you're spending on marketing and what your
profit is.
So we're used to seeing these scattered data points all over the place and then one line like this ad
goes through them and approximates a simple regression or represents a simple linear regression that
goes through here on now how do we see something completely different because our indep our dependent
variable is categorical it is either on zero which means people didn't take up the offer or it's on
one.
Which means people did take up the offer.
At the same time the funny thing is that Grettel tried to actually put a simple linear regression through
this dataset and this is the best line it could fit.
And although the simple integration that makes no sense here at all it's not the right tool to model
this data or this phenomenon that we're observing.
We do at the same time see that there.
It looks like there is some sort of trend or sort of something going on in the dark it's totally random
you can see that people in the younger age groups from 25 to 45 they're more skewed to the left or they're
less likely to take up the offer.
And people are between 35 and 50 are more likely to take up the offer so they're more skewed to the
right and or shift more shifted to the right.
These dots are shifts the right is not shifted to the left.
So definitely something is going on.
But at the same time we see that the linear regression modeling linear a simple linear regression is
not the right tool to predict this data set and predict this phenomenon or explain this phenomenon.
So that's what we're going to be doing in the section we're going to introduce a brand new tool called
logistic regression.
And we will see how it can help us solve these scenarios.
And why do we need to do that.
Well because you will come across these situations quite a lot.
This is very it's a very common type of analysis when something you're trying to predict whether something
is going to happen or not going to happen.
The classic example is in medicine when you have say a drug and you want to test whether it's helping
patients or not you can use an AB test for that definitely but sometimes AB tests are not sufficient
because you have many independent variables so you can't just control for control for everything and
just check one independent variable.
Now sometimes you might have the age of the people that are testing the country they live in the mood
they're in all sorts of different factors and it when you have a combination of factors then it'll just
regression test that you'll also come across these types of problems.
In a business environment a lot especially if you're dealing with customers or in a customer centric
organization because you need to do a lot of classification.
And we'll talk about this about classification versus regression in the next tutorial quote quite a
bit.
But what that means is that you need to categorize your customers or you need to create segments you
need to understand how they respond to different offers how they not only offers how they how they behave
based Giono do they browse by mobile Do they browse via Internet or do they do that when do they come
into your store or what type of products they prefer.
Lots and lots of different things and so every time you can think of a yes no question.
And at the same time there's quite a few independent variables that can affect that.
Yes no question then you need logistic regression.
And if you pause for a second after this tutorial and think about it how in your work when situations
like that arise when you have to deal with them or when your company they arise and you can possibly
you know research them and understand them investigate them and improve how the company is performing
just based on some modeling in that space.
I'm sure you'll be able to come up with one or two at least one or two examples of how these situations
occur in your business environment and that's it for today.
Next I'm going to be an interesting tutorial we're going to talk about logistic regression intuition
and Accorsi then until next I'm happy analyzing